WIP: Draft of new adapting ls doc (#628)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/extensions/language_servers/adapting_existing_language_servers.md

> # Adapting a language server for use with Sourcegraph'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Adapting a language server for use with Sourcegraph
```

> Sourcegraph provides [code intelligence](index.md) through extensions. One way for extensions to provide code intelligence is to connect to a language server that speaks the Language Server Protocol (LSP) standard. However, there are a few assumptions that a language server targeting editor clients may make that are not true in a distributed service environment like Sourcegraph. This documentation page is intended for language server developers who are adapting an existing language server (or building a new language server) to provide code intelligence on Sourcegraph.

Reviewer 2: The first two sentences sound almost contradictory (is it Sourcegraph or extensions that provide code intelligence?). Perhaps if they were merged, the meaning would be more obvious.

```However, there are a few assumptions that a language server targeting editor clients may make that are not true in a distributed service environment like Sourcegraph.

Reviewer: Index.md talks about code intelligence generally (and probably needs to be updated also). This page should focus on language servers specifically.

```suggestion
Servers that speak the Language Server Protocol (LSP) can provide [code intelligence](index.md) everywhere that you view code (on Sourcegraph, on GitHub and other code hosts) by creating a [Sourcegraph extension](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph-extension-api).

This documentation page is intended for language server developers who are adapting an existing language server (or building a new language server) to provide code intelligence on Sourcegraph, because there are a few extra considerations when running language servers in a distributed service environment like Sourcegraph. 
```

@sqs @chrismwendt what is the best landing page for Sourcegraph extensions? (I assumed https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph-extension-api in the above suggestion).

## Connection protocol

> The easiest way for an extension to talk from the browser to a language server is through WebSockets.

Reviewer 2: Could you explain why this is necessary? You could mention the browser execution context.

```url
https://sessiontoken:sourcegraph.com/.api/raw/github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs.tar
```

The TypeScript server is able to fetch this archive and extract it to disk on initialization.
In further requests, the files are then identified as contents of the archive:

```url
https://sessiontoken:sourcegraph.com/.api/raw/github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs.tar#src/Observable.ts
```

This method is easy to implement and compatible with many language servers.

### Using the raw contents API

The xxx extension sends URLs pointing to the Sourcegraph raw API for individual files:

```url
https://sessiontoken:sourcegraph.com/.api/raw/github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/-/src/Observable.ts
```

The server can retrieve the contents of the file with a simple HTTP GET.

A `GET` on a directory returns the entries in that directory separated by newlines (LF):

```
GET https://sessiontoken:sourcegraph.com/.api/raw/github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/-/src
```

```
Content-Type: text/plain

https://sessiontoken:sourcegraph.com/.api/raw/github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/-/src/operators
https://sessiontoken:sourcegraph.com/.api/raw/github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs/-/src/Observable.ts
```

## Authentication

> To make sure the language server is authenticated when fetching URIs, the extension can authenticate the URL by embedding the users session token into the userinfo section of the URI:

Author: @beyang @keegancsmith @sqs currently our session cookies are http-only. To allow embedding them in the URL, we would need to expose the session token to extensions, meaning making it accessible to client JavaScript in a way. Do you see security implications of this?

Reviewer 2: The extension JS bundle could be running in a web worker in the browser extension, which would be a different origin from the Sourcegraph instance.

Author: It's not a CORS issue, all language servers get through LSP is URLs, and we don't want to add Sourcegraph-proprietary fields that tell a language server "also sent these cookies/headers/whatever".

What if there is an iframe embedded in Sourcegraph or a link without `rel="noopener"`, could it mess with `window.parent`/`window.opener`?
